ACC: Adaptive Cruise Control

A cruise control system for vehicles which controls longitudinal speed. ACC can maintain a desired reference speed or adjust its speed accordingly to maintain safe driving distances to other vehicles. 

Ego

A term to express the notion of self, which is used to refer to the vehicle being controlled autonomously, as opposed to other vehicles or objects in the scene.  It is most often used in the form ego-vehicle, meaning the self-vehicle.

FMEA: Failure Mode and Effects Analysis

A bottom up approach of failure analysis which examines individual causes and determines their effects on the higher level system.

GNSS: Global Navigation Satellite System

A generic term for all satellite systems which provide position estimation. The Global Positioning System (GPS) made by the United States is a type of GNSS. Another example is the Russian made GLONASS (Globalnaya Navigazionnaya Sputnikovaya Sistema).

HAZOP: Hazard and Operability Study

A variation of FMEA (Failure Mode and Effects Analysis) which uses guide words to brainstorm over sets of possible failures that can arise.

IMU: Inertial Measurement Unit

A sensor device consisting of an accelerometer and a gyroscope. The IMU is used to measure vehicle acceleration and angular velocity, and its data can be fused with other sensors for state estimation.

LIDAR: Light Detection and Ranging

A type of sensor which detects range by transmitting light and measuring return time and shifts of the reflected signal.

LTI: Linear Time Invariant 

A linear system whose dynamics do not change with time. For example, a car using the unicycle model is a LTI system. If the model includes the tires degrading over time (and changing the vehicle dynamics), then the system would no longer be LTI.

LQR: Linear Quadratic Regulation

A method of control utilizing full state feedback. The method seeks to optimize a quadratic cost function dependent on the state and control input.

MPC: Model Predictive Control

A method of control whose control input optimizes a user defined cost function over a finite time horizon. A common form of MPC is finite horizon LQR (linear quadratic regulation).

NHTSA: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

An agency of the Executive Branch of the U.S. government who has developed a 12-part framework to structure safety assessment for autonomous driving.  The framework can be found here. https://www.nhtsa.gov/sites/nhtsa.dot.gov/files/documents/13069a-ads2.0_090617_v9a_tag.pdf

ODD: Operational Design Domain

The set of conditions under which a given system is designed to function. For example, a self driving car can have a control system designed for driving in urban environments, and another for driving on the highway.

OEDR: Object and Event Detection and Response

The ability to detect objects and events that immediately affect the driving task, and to react to them appropriately. 

PID: Proportional Integral Derivative Control

A common method of control defined by 3 gains.

1) A proportional gain which scales the control output based on the amount of the error

2) An integral gain which scales the control output based on the amount of accumulated error

3) A derivative gain which scales the control output based on the error rate of change

RADAR: Radio Detection And Ranging

A type of sensor which detects range and movement by transmitting radio waves and measuring return time and shifts of the reflected signal.

SONAR: Sound Navigation And Ranging

A type of sensor which detects range and movement by transmitting sound waves and measuring return time and shifts of the reflected signal. 




DRIVING TASK
	Perceive
	Plan
	Control

Operational Design Domain(ODD)

Level of autonomy
	Driver attention requirements
	Driver action requirements


1. Lateral control 
2. Longitutional control
3. Object and Event Detection and Reponse
	detect and react
4. Planning
	short term
	long term
5. Operational design domain

PERCEPTION
	Identification
	Understanding its motion

Goals for Perception
	Static objects
	Dynamic objects --> "predict their movements" --> Master Yi
	Ego localization

Challenges to perception
	Robust detection and segmentation
	Sensor uncertainty
	Occlusion, reflection
	Illumination, lens flare
	Weather, precipitation

Types of planning
	Reactive
	Predictive

Making decisions
	Long term
	Short term
	Immediate
		Control and trajectory planning
	Rules based planning
		--> like stop if there is someone standing in front
	Predictive planning

Sensor
	Categories:-
		1. Exteroceptive ==> external
		2. Propropceptive ==> internal

	Cameras:-
		Resolution
		Field of view
		Dyamic range

		Tradeoff between resolution and FOV

	Two cameras with overlapping FOV and aligned image planes --> stero camera
			Depth esatimation
			Disparity map --> used to esrimate depth

	LIDAR:-
		3D point cloud map
		not affected by lighting conditions
		Comparison metric:-
			Number of beams
			Points per second
			Rotation rate
			Detection range
			FOV

		High resolution solid state LIDAR --> new

	RADAR:-
		Comparision metrics:-
			Range
			FOV
			Position and speed accuracy

	SONAR:-
		Parking scenarios
		Comparision metrics:-
			Range
			FOV
			Cost

	GNSS:- GPS or Galileo

	IMU

	Wheel odometry:-		
		Speed accuracy
		Position drift


Computing Hardware
	Image processing, Object detection, Mapping
		GPUs
		FGPAs --> Field Programmable Gate Array
		ASICs --> Application Specific integrated chips

	Synchronization Hardware

Aggressive deceleration --> 5 m/s2
Comfortable deceleration --> 2 m/s2
Stopping distance => d = v^2/2a

SOFTWARE ARCHITECTURE
	Environment Perception
	Environment	Mapping
	Motion Planning
	Controller
	System Supervisor

	Environment Perception
		Localizing the ego-vehicle in space
		Classifying and locating the importtatnt elements of the environment

			GPS, IMU
			LIDAR, camera --> for more accuracy

		Dynamic Object Detection --> Dynamic Object Tracking --> Object motion prediction
		Static Object Detection


	Environment	Mapping	
		Occupancy Grid Map --> Object	tracks
			LIDAR
		Localization Map
			LIDAR
		Detailed Road Map

	Motion Planning
		Mission planner
		Behavior planner
		Local planner

	Controller
		Velocity Controller
			Throttle percentage
			Brake percentage	
		Steering Controller
			Steering Angle

	System Supervisor
		Software Supervisor
		Hardware Supervisor

LOCALLIZATION MAP
	Continuous set of Lidar points
	GPU+IMU+WheelOdometry

	Point cloud map is created


OCCUPANCY GRID MAP
	Continuous set of Lidar points
	Plan safe collision-free paths

	Occupancy by static objects
		Dynamic objects are removed

	Probabilistically the grid is created --> the grid indicates which grid is occupied or not WITH THAT PROBABILITY



DETAILED ROAD
	Plan current pos to final pos

	3 methods of creation:-
		1. Fully online --> do everything online
		2. Fully offline --> collect data
		3. Created offline and Updated Online


NHTSA: Safety Framework
	Systems engineering 	