<--------------------Week 1-------------------->

Data Analysts
	Collects
	Transforms
	Organizes

Data Analysis Processes
	Ask
	Prepare
	Process
	Analyze
	Share
	Act

Data-driven decisions

DATA ANALYTICS
	Machine Learning & AI
	Statistics
	Analytics

Data ecosystems
	Hardware and Software tools

Data Scientists vs Data Analysts
	Data Science --> Creating new ways of modeling and understanding the unknown by using raw data

Data Analysis --> collection, transformation, organization --:> conclusions, predictions, decision-making

Data Analytics --> Science of data

Analysts use data-driven decision-making and follow a step-by-step process. You have learned that there are six steps to this process:
	Ask questions and define the problem.
	Prepare data by collecting and storing the information.
	Process data by cleaning and checking the information.
	Analyze data to find patterns, relationships, and trends.
	Share data with your audience.
	Act on the data and use the analysis results.

The data analysis life cycle—the process of going from "data" to "decision"

The process presented as part of the Google Data Analytics Certificate is one that will be valuable to you as you keep moving forward in your career:
	Ask: Business Challenge/Objective/Question
	Prepare: Data generation, collection, storage, and data management
	Process: Data cleaning/data integrity
	Analyze: Data exploration, visualization, and analysis
	Share: Communicating and interpreting results 
	Act:  Putting your insights to work to solve the problem

EMC's data analysis life cycle
	EMC Corporation's data analytics life cycle is cyclical with six steps:
		Discovery
		Pre-processing data
		Model planning
		Model building
		Communicate results
		Operationalize

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/book/10.1002/9781119183686

SAS's iterative life cycle
	An iterative life cycle was created by a company called SAS, a leading data analytics solutions provider. It can be used to produce repeatable, reliable, and predictive results: 
		Ask
		Prepare
		Explore
		Model
		Implement
		Act
		Evaluate

Project-based data analytics life cycle 
A project-based data analytics life cycle has five simple steps:
	Identifying the problem
	Designing data requirements
	Pre-processing data
	Performing data analysis
	Visualizing data

Big data analytics life cycle
Authors Thomas Erl, Wajid Khattak, and Paul Buhler proposed a big data analytics life cycle in their book, Big Data Fundamentals: Concepts, Drivers & Techniques. Their life cycle suggests phases divided into nine steps:
	Business case evaluation
	Data identification
	Data acquisition and filtering
	Data extraction
	Data validation and cleaning 
	Data aggregation and representation
	Data analysis
	Data visualization
	Utilization of analysis results


<--------------------Week 2-------------------->

Data analysts balance many different roles in their work. In this part of the course, you’ll learn about some of these roles and the key skills used by analysts. You’ll also explore analytical thinking and how it relates to data-driven decision-making.

Learning Objectives
	Explain the concept of data-driven decision-making including specific examples
	Describe the key characteristics of analytical thinking
	Conduct an analytical thinking self assessment, giving specific examples of the application of analytical thinking
	Demonstrate an understanding of the five key analytical skills used by data analysts
	Explain how analytical thinking enables decision-making
	Begin asking more effective questions

Key data analyst skills
	Curiosity
	Understanding context
	Technical Mindset
	Data Design
	Data Strategy

Analytic Thinking
	Visualization
	Strategy
	Problem-Orientation
	Correlation
	Big-picture and detail-oriented thinking

Correlation does not equal causation

Right questions to ask

What is the root cause of a problem?

"Five Whys" Process
	Ask "why?" five times to reveal the root cause

Data-driven decision --> successful outcomes


<-----------Week 3------------>

Data Analysis Tools
	Spreadsheets
	Databases
	Query Languages
	Visualization software

Life Cycle of Data
	Plan
	Capture
	Manage
	Analyze
	Archive
	Destroy

	Plan: Decide what kind of data is needed, how it will be managed, and who will be responsible for it.

	Capture: Collect or bring in data from a variety of different sources.

	Manage: Care for and maintain the data. This includes determining how and where it is stored and the tools used to do so.

	Analyze: Use the data to solve problems, make decisions, and support business goals.

	Archive: Keep relevant data stored for long-term and future reference.

	Destroy: Remove data from storage and delete any shared copies of the data.

The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service uses the following data life cycle:
	Plan
	Acquire
	Maintain
	Access 
	Evaluate
	Archive

The USGS uses the data life cycle below:
	Plan
	Acquire
	Process
	Analyze
	Preserve
	Publish/Share

Several cross-cutting or overarching activities are also performed during each stage of their life cycle:
	Describe (metadata and documentation)
	Manage Quality
	Backup and Secure

Financial institutions may take a slightly different approach to the data life cycle as described in The Data Life Cycle, an article in Strategic Finance magazine:
	Capture
	Qualify
	Transform
	Utilize
	Report
	Archive
	Purge

One final data life cycle informed by Harvard University research has eight stages:
	Generation
	Collection
	Processing
	Storage 
	Management
	Analysis
	Visualization
	Interpretation

Six phases of data analysis
	Ask
	Prepare
	Process
	Analyze
	Share
	Act

