Field of Security
Job Responsibilities of an entry-level Security Analyst
Core skills and knowledge needed to become a Security Analyst
Describe how Security Analysts protect networks and information

30% growth rate
	higher than average growth rate for other occupations

Hands-on Activities
	Dectecting and responding to attacks
	Monitoring and protecting networks
	Investigating incidents
	Writing code to automate tasks

Program overview
	Core security concepts
	Security domains
	Network security
	Computing basics

	Incident detection and response
	Find and apply for jobs

COURSES
	Foundations of Cybersecurity
	Play It Safe: Manage Security Risks
	Connect and Protect: Networks and Network Security
	Tools of the Trade: Linux and SQL
	Assets, Threats, and Vulnerabilities
	Sound the Alarm: Detection and Response
	Automate Cybersecurity Tasks with Python
	Put It to Work: Prepare for Cybersecurity Jobs
	 
In this course, you will learn the primary job responsibilities and core skills of those who work in the field of cybersecurity. You will explore the eight Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) security domains, various security frameworks and controls, as well as a foundational security model called the confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA) triad. You will also be introduced to some common tools used by security analysts that help protect organizations and people alike.

Certificate program progress
	Foundations of Cybersecurity
	 — (current course) Explore the cybersecurity profession, including significant events that led to the development of the cybersecurity field and its continued importance to organizational operations. Learn about entry-level cybersecurity roles and responsibilities. 

	Play It Safe: Manage Security Risks
	 — Identify how cybersecurity professionals use frameworks and controls to protect business operations, and explore common cybersecurity tools.

	Connect and Protect: Networks and Network Security
	 — Gain an understanding of network-level vulnerabilities and how to secure networks.

	Tools of the Trade: Linux and SQL
	 — Explore foundational computing skills, including communicating with the Linux operating system through the command line and querying databases with SQL.

	Assets, Threats, and Vulnerabilities
	 — Learn about the importance of security controls and developing a threat actor mindset to protect and defend an organization’s assets from various threats, risks, and vulnerabilities.

	Sound the Alarm: Detection and Response
	 — Understand the incident response lifecycle and practice using tools to detect and respond to cybersecurity incidents.

	Automate Cybersecurity Tasks with Python
	 — Explore the Python programming language and write code to automate cybersecurity tasks.

	Put It to Work: Prepare for Cybersecurity Jobs
	 — Learn about incident classification, escalation, and ways to communicate with stakeholders. This course closes out the program with tips on how to engage with the cybersecurity community and prepare for your job search.

Common job titles
	Security Analyst or Specialist
	Cybersecurity Analyst or Specialist
	Security operations center(SOC) analyst
	Information security analyst

Responsibilities of an entry-level cybersecurity analyst
	Protecting computer and network systems
		Penetration Testing
	Installing prevention software

"playbook" terminology

Common cybersecurity terminology
	Compliance is the process of adhering to internal standards and external regulations and enables organizations to avoid fines and security breaches.

	Security frameworks are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy.

	Security controls are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. They are used with security frameworks to establish a strong security posture.

	Security posture is an organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change. A strong security posture leads to lower risk for the organization.

	A threat actor, or malicious attacker, is any person or group who presents a security risk. This risk can relate to computers, applications, networks, and data.

	An internal threat can be a current or former employee, an external vendor, or a trusted partner who poses a security risk. At times, an internal threat is accidental. For example, an employee who accidentally clicks on a malicious email link would be considered an accidental threat. Other times, the internal threat actor intentionally engages in risky activities, such as unauthorized data access.

	Network security is the practice of keeping an organization's network infrastructure secure from unauthorized access. This includes data, services, systems, and devices that are stored in an organization’s network.

	Cloud security is the process of ensuring that assets stored in the cloud are properly configured, or set up correctly, and access to those assets is limited to authorized users. The cloud is a network made up of a collection of servers or computers that store resources and data in remote physical locations known as data centers that can be accessed via the internet. Cloud security is a growing subfield of cybersecurity that specifically focuses on the protection of data, applications, and infrastructure in the cloud.

	Programming is a process that can be used to create a specific set of instructions for a computer to execute tasks. These tasks can include:

		Automation of repetitive tasks (e.g., searching a list of malicious domains)

		Reviewing web traffic 

		Alerting suspicious activity

Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) tools
	Alert --> use forensics

Transferable and technical cybersecurity skills
	Transferable skills
		Communication
		Problem-solving
		Time management
		Growth mindset
		Diverse perspectives

	Technical skills
		Programming languages
		Security information and event management (SIEM) tools
		Intrusion detection systems (IDSs)
		Threat landscape knowledge
		Incident response

CompTIA Security+ exam
	the industry leading certification for cybersecurity roles

Personally Identifiable Information (PII)
Sensitive Personally Identifiable Information (SPII)

	SPII > PII (more damage if stolen)



Glossary terms from week 1
	Terms and definitions from Course 1, Week 1
		Cybersecurity (or security): The practice of ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information by protecting networks, devices, people, and data from unauthorized access or criminal exploitation

		Cloud security: The process of ensuring that assets stored in the cloud are properly configured and access to those assets is limited to authorized users

		Internal threat: A current or former employee, external vendor, or trusted partner who poses a security risk

		Network security: The practice of keeping an organization's network infrastructure secure from unauthorized access

		Personally identifiable information (PII): Any information used to infer an individual’s identity

		Security posture: An organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change 

		Sensitive personally identifiable information (SPII): A specific type of PII that falls under stricter handling guidelines

		Technical skills: Skills that require knowledge of specific tools, procedures, and policies 

		Threat: Any circumstance or event that can negatively impact assets

		Threat actor: Any person or group who presents a security risk

		Transferable skills: Skills from other areas that can apply to different careers 

<------------------ Week-2 ------------------>


You will explore how cybersecurity threats have appeared and evolved alongside the adoption of computers. You will also understand how past and present cyber attacks have influenced the development of the security field. In addition, you'll get an overview of the eight security domains.
Learning Objectives
Identify the most common types of attacks, past and present
Identify how security attacks impact business operations
Recognize how past and present attacks on business operations have led to the development of the security field
Identify the CISSP eight security domains

