basic course in designing experiments and analyzing the resulting data

The course objective is to learn how to plan, design and conduct experiments efficiently and effectively, and analyze the resulting data to obtain objective conclusions

Randomization
Replication
Blocking - a technique to control nuisance variation during the experiment

2 sample t test
	compare two level of a factor

Fisher's Blocking Concept
	Background noise

"If you have 10 weeks to solve a problem, you should spend eight weeks planning the experiment, one week running it and one week analyzing the data." - Douglas Montgomery

Randomization
	Doing this induces the notion of balancing out effects of the "lurking" variables

Replication
	Sample size (improving precision of effect estimation, estimation of error or background noise)
	Replication vs repeat experiments

Strategies of Experimentation
	1. Best-guess experiments
		backed by experience and knowledge in that area

	2. One-Factor-At-a-Time (OFTA) experiments
		Very inefficient

	3. Statistically Designed Experiments
		Based on Fisher's factorial concept

Planning, Conducting and Analyzing an Experiment
	Pre-Experimental Planning
		1. Recognition of & statement of problem
		2. Choice of factors, levels and ranges
		3. Selection of the response variable(s)

	4. Choice of design
	5. Conducting the experiment
	6. Statistical Analysis
	7. Drawing conclusions, recommendations

Montgomery's first theorem of running experiments
	If you want it done right, do it yourself.

If you've blown the experiment before step 6, statistics is not going to help you. 

<--------------Week-2-------------------->

Topics covered this week include:
	basic statistical concepts
	descriptive statistics
	normal distribution
	simple comparative experiments
	statistical hypothesis testing
	pooled t-test
	two-sample t-test
	confidence intervals
	sample size determination

Descibing sample data
	Random samples
	Sample mean, variance, standard deviation
	Populations versus samples
	Population mean, variance, standard deviation
	Estimating parameters

Simple Comparitive Experiments
	The hypothesis testing framework
	The two-sample t-test
	Checking assumptions, validity

Portland Cement - bond strength data
	Graphical view of the data
		Dot diagram
			Good for 20-25 points

		Histogram
			Bins

		Box Plot
			25%ile
			50%ile
			75%ile

			Whiskers - min and max

The Hypothesis Testing Framework
	Two-sample t-test
		To solve the hypothesis that u1=u2

		Z_n = (y1_mean - y2_mean)  / (*)

	In initial stages of the experiment keep the cutoff (alpha) high, as wrongly concluding that a factor is not important has chain-effect-impact on the course of the experiment
		It is called type-I error.

	Directly using sample variance is okay for large samples.

	-> pooled individual sample variances
		Weighted average (n-1) and (n-2) are the weights

	We get t-statistic value when we take sample variances <<-->> as to <<-->> normal-statistic when we take population variance

	Two-sample (pooled) t-test

	The normal probability plot
		Slope is proportional to standard deviation

	Confidence interval formula

"Hypothesis testing on variances"
What if the two variances are different? - Hypothesis Testing on Variances
	If the normal plot of the two data , the slopes are very different, then we cannot use pooled-t-test.

	Use S1 and S2 formula
		to get t-value

		But we need to make an adjustment to the degrees of freedom

Inference on Single Mean
	We can use Z-statistic
	It is now one-sided test

Paired t=test
	Special case of two-sample t-test

	Greatly improve precision

	Statistical model has these
		1. Mean
		2. Specimen effect
		3. Error

	
