Define generative AI, including large language models (LLMs), and describe how supervised learning is used to train generative AI models to create high quality text and images.
List common use cases for generative AI including writing, reading, and chatting tasks for both web-UI and software-based implementations of LLMs.
Identify the limitations of LLMs and use practical techniques and strategies for writing better prompts to enhance the quality and relevance of an LLM’s responses.

Specialized Chatbots for specific applications

ChatBots supporting humans
	Human-in-the-loop is a blend of supervised machine learning and active learning where humans are involved in both the training and testing stages of building an algorithm.

	Humans verify and edit the answer provided by chatbot before sending to customer

Bot triages for humans
	Branching to automate easier tasks and harder tasks to humans

Advice for deploying chatbots
	1. Start with internal-facing chatbots
	2. Deploy with human-in-the-loop to check for mistakes
	3. Only after deemed safe, allow bot to communicate directly with customers.

What LLMs can and cannot do
	"Can a fresh college graduate follow the instructions in the prompt to complete the task?" - use this question to know if the LLM can answer your question

Generative AI works best with unstructured data

Detailed, Specific, guide the model, experiment and iterate

Text or images generative models are called multi-modal models

Image Generation - Diffusion model
	Noising and DeNoising

<----------------------------- Week-2 --------------------------------->
GENERATIVE AI PROJECTS

Describe the key phases in the lifecycle of a generative AI project.
Explore when to use more advanced techniques, like retrieval augmented generation (RAG), fine-tuning, and reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), to customize or improve an LLMs performance.
Think through the cost considerations of using a cloud-based LLM to power software applications.

LifeCycle of a Generative AI project
	LifeCycle
		1. Scope project (restaurant reputation monitoring system)

		2. Build/Improve system
			Prototype, that will improve over time

		3. Internal evaluation

		4. Deploy and monitor

	Iterative process

	Highly empirical process(meaning experimental)

Tools to improve performance
	Prompting

	Retrieval Augmented Generation(RAG)
		Give LLM  acces to external data sources

	Fine-tune models
		Adapt LLM to your task

	Pretrain models
		Train LLM from scratch

400 tokens = 300 words

Retrieval Augmented Generation(RAG)
	expanding what LLM can do by giving additional knowledge
		from data outside

	Steps
		1. Look through documents if they have the answer

		2. Incorporate retrieved text into an updated prompt

		3.  Generate answer from the new prompt with additional context

"LLM as a reasoning engine"
	And not as a way to store and retrieve infomration

Fine-tuning
	To gain specific knowledge
	
	To get a smaller model to perform a task
		Lower cost and latency to deploy

Pretraining an LLM

Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF)
	Triple H = Helpful, Honest, Harmless

	Step 1
		Train an answer quality (reward) model

	Step 2
		Have LLM generate a lot of answers. Further train it to generate more responses that get high scores.

Tools for reasoning

Agents
	Use LLM to choose and carry out complex sequences of actions

	Cutting edge area of AI research

<----------------------------- Week-3 --------------------------------->
Generative AI and business

Job as made of multiple tasks
	Col 1: Tasks
	Col2: Generative AI potential

Augmentation vs Automation
	Augmentation
		Help humans with a task

	Automaton
		Automatically perform a task

New workflows and new opportunities

Common roles
	Software Engineer
	Machine learning Engineer
	Product Engineer

	Optional
		Data Engineer
		Data Scientist
		Project Manager

Automation Potential across sectors


Concerns about AI
	Concern 1: Introduction of Biases
		Can be solved using the reward function of RLHF

	Concern 2: Jobs

Artificial General Intelligence
	